ADR for ArgoCD dynamic namespaces using HNC (#620)
elastisys/compliantkubernetes: docs/adr/0042-argocd-dynamic-hnc-namespaces.md

# ArgoCD with dynamic hnc namespaces

* Status: accepted
* Deciders: product owner, DX, GoTo
* Date: 2023-05-23

## Context and Problem Statement

- Argo CD cannot create hnc namespaces and deploy services into it. Our current Argo offering is a namespaced installation and a cronjob patches the cluster [secret](https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/operator-manual/declarative-setup/#clusters) with the list of managed namespaces every minute. So, when a user tries to create an Application and if part of it is a namespace and service to be deployed into the namespace.  As the new **Not yet created/patched to the cluster secret** namespace is not managed, Argo CD fails at the comparison stage.

> - Currently, Upstream ArgoCD is unware of hnc resources, and does not give subnamespaces the needed precedence, read more [here](https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/user-guide/sync-waves/#how-does-it-work). The cluster secret that takes a list of managed namespaces, does not take a regular expression, so it is hard for Application developers to create namespaces as part of Application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, upstream ArgoCD is unaware of HNC resources, and does not give sub-namespaces the needed precedence, read more [here](https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/user-guide/sync-waves/#how-does-it-work).
The cluster secret that takes a list of managed namespaces, does not take a regular expression, so it is hard for Application developers to create namespaces as part of Application.
```

Currently, upstream ArgoCD is unaware of HNC resources, and does not give subnamespaces the needed precedence, read more [here](https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/user-guide/sync-waves/#how-does-it-work).
The cluster secret that takes a list of managed namespaces, does not take a regular expression, so it is hard for Application developers to create namespaces as part of an Application.

> So, do we want to let customers create and delete subnamespaces dynamically?

Reviewer: ?
```suggestion
So, do we want to let customers create and delete subnamespaces dynamically via Argo CD?
```

Author: yes
